Ydb cli 2.9.0 and 2.10.0 changelog and download links (#6399)
ydb-platform/ydb: ydb/docs/en/core/changelog-cli.md

# {{ ydb-short-name }} CLI changelog

## Version 2.10.0 {#2-10-0}

Released on June 24, 2024. To update to version **2.10.0**, select the [Downloads](downloads/index.md#ydb-cli) section.

**Features:**

* Added `ydb sql` command that runs over QueryService and is able to execute any DML/DDL command.
* Added `notx` support for `--tx-mode` option in `ydb table query execute`.
* Added start and end times for long-running operation description (export, import).
* Added replication description support in `ydb scheme describe` and `ydb scheme ls` commands.
* Added big datetime types support.
* `ydb workload` commands rework:
   * `--path` option moved to specific workload level. I.e.: `ydb workload tpch --path some/tables/path init ...`.

>    * `--store=s3` changed to `--store=external-s3` in `init` subcommand.

Author: Yes, these are backward incompatible changes, AFAIK. But kind of too minor to increment major version. Also I've been told these options are new and no one probably uses them yet.
Or your point is that it should be another paragraph for backward incompatible changes?

>    * `--store=s3` changed to `--store=external-s3` in `init` subcommand.

Reviewer: > Or your point is that it should be another paragraph for backward incompatible changes?

@pnv1 this ^^^

>    * Added `--clear-state` option to `init` subcommand that allows to remove tables before workload initialization.

Reviewer 2: см. русскую версию.

   * Added `ydb workload * import` command to prepopulate tables with initial content before executing benchmarks. 

**Bug fixes:**

* Fixed colors in PrettyTable format

## Version 2.9.0 {#2-9-0}

Released on April 25, 2024. To update to version **2.9.0**, select the [Downloads](downloads/index.md#ydb-cli) section.

**Features:**

> * Improved query logical plan tables: added colors, more information, fixed some bugs.

Author: The author of these changes said that there is enough info in this description for now. Detailed documentation on the optimizer and its usage will be released at some point

* Verbose option '-v' is supported for `ydb workload` commands to provide debug information.

> * Added an option to run `ydb workload tpch` with s3 source to measure federated query performance.
> * Added `--rate` option for `ydb workload command` to control transactions (or requests) per second limit.
> * Added `--use-virtual-addressing` option for s3 import/export allowing to switch [virtual hosing of buckets](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/VirtualHosting.html) for s3 path layout.
> * Improved `ydb scheme ls` performance due to listing directories in parallel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added an option to run `ydb workload tpch` with an S3 source to measure [federated queries](concepts/federated_query/index.md) performance.
* Added the `--rate` option for `ydb workload` commands to control the transactions (or requests) per second limit.
* Added the `--use-virtual-addressing` option for S3 import/export, allowing the switch to [virtual hosting of buckets](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/VirtualHosting.html) for the S3 path layout.
* Improved `ydb scheme ls` performance by listing directories in parallel.
```

**Bug fixes:**

> * Resolved an issue where extra characters were truncated during line transfers in CLI tables.
> * Fixed invalid memory access in `tools restore`.
> * Fixed ignoring `--timeout` option in generic and scan queries and import command.
> * Added 60s timeout to version check and cli binary download to prevent infinite waiting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Resolved an issue where extra characters were truncated during line transfers in CLI tables.
* Fixed invalid memory access in `tools restore`.
* Fixed the issue of the `--timeout` option being ignored in generic and scan queries, as well as in the import command.
* Added a 60-second timeout to version checks and CLI binary downloads to prevent infinite waiting.
```

> * Fixed minor bugs: typos, empty config file handling, etc.

Reviewer: There is no need to mention typos. From this sentence, it is not clear: what was wrong with empty config handling?

# {{ ydb-short-name }} CLI changelog

## Version 2.10.0 {#2-10-0}

Released on June 24, 2024. To update to version **2.10.0**, select the [Downloads](downloads/index.md#ydb-cli) section.

**Features:**

* Added the `ydb sql` command that runs over QueryService and can execute any DML/DDL command.
* Added `notx` support for the `--tx-mode` option in `ydb table query execute`.
* Added start and end times for long-running operation descriptions (export, import).
* Added replication description support in the `ydb scheme describe` and `ydb scheme ls` commands.
* Added big datetime types support: `Date32`, `Datetime64`, `Timestamp64`, `Interval64`.
* `ydb workload` commands rework:
   * Added the `--clear` option to the `init` subcommand, allowing tables from previous runs to be removed before workload initialization.
   * Added the `ydb workload * import` command to prepopulate tables with initial content before executing benchmarks.

> **Minor backward incompatible changes:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Backward incompatible changes:**
```
